## Introduction to Objects and JSON using JavaScript
`AJAX` allows you to communicate with the server, exchange data and update the page without
having to refresh the page

The two major features of AJAX allow you to do the following:
- Make requests to the server without reloading the page
- Receive and work with data from the server

This docs is loaded with 30 Projects to help you learn and practice connecting to endpoints,
returning JSON data, making fetch requests, using JSON data with JavaScript to create Page
content, explore GET POST PUT and DELETE (CRUD create, read, update, and delete are the
four basic functions of persistent storage) with JavaScript AJAX.

Select, create, manipulate page elements with Modern JavaScript code - make things happen.
Create Interactive and fully dynamic web applications driven by JSON data. Get user
selections, make the AJAX request from the user select and output to the web page using
JavaScript Code.

Explore how to make fun interactive projects to make AJAX requests coming from page data
and output the content to the page. Dynamic Page elements generated from AJAX requests to
endpoints and return JSON data and use it within JavaScript to update and manipulate DOM
page elements. Create Games, Get JSON data and let users explore the data. Dynamically
generate page content with JavaScript.

Connect to web endpoints - get JSON data and output that content into your web page with
JavaScript.

AJAX practice mini projects to help you learn more about JSON data - making fetch requests -
debugging and more.

Source Code is included - mini projects are designed to help practice and learn more about
AJAX and how you can use it to create content and update web pages.

### JavaScript Arrays
Arrays are list-like objects whose prototype has methods to perform traversal and mutation
operations. Neither the length of a JavaScript array nor the types of its elements are fixed. Since
an array's length can change at any time, and data can be stored at non-contiguous locations in
the array,
https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array

### JavaScript Objects
An object is a collection of related data and/or functionality
https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/JavaScript/Objects/Basics

### JSON object
The JSON object contains methods for parsing JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) and
converting values to JSON. It can't be called or constructed, and aside from its two method
properties, it has no interesting functionality of its own.
https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/JSON

### Valid JSON
https://jsonlint.com/

### JavaScript Fetch
The Fetch API provides a JavaScript interface for accessing and manipulating parts of the
HTTP pipeline, such as requests and responses. It also provides a global fetch() method that
provides an easy, logical way to fetch resources asynchronously across the network.
https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Fetch_API/Using_Fetch

### JSON parse and JSON stringify
The JSON.parse() method parses a JSON string, constructing the JavaScript value or object
described by the string. An optional reviver function can be provided to perform a transformation
on the resulting object before it is returned.
https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/JSON/parse

The JSON.stringify() method converts a JavaScript object or value to a JSON string, optionally
replacing values if a replacer function is specified or optionally including only the specified
properties if a replacer array is specified.
https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/JSON/stringify

### LocalStorage
The read-only localStorage property allows you to access a Storage object for the Document's
origin; the stored data is saved across browser sessions. localStorage is similar to
sessionStorage, except that while data stored in localStorage has no expiration time, data
stored in sessionStorage gets cleared when the page session ends
https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Window/localStorage


## 1. JavaScript Arrays
Lesson Challenge
1. Create an Array
2. Try pop() shift() unshift() push()
3. Clone the array - using
forEach loop and Map
Methods
4. Output results into the console
const arr5 = arr1.map((x)=>x);
```javascript
const arr1 = ['one', 'string', 100, false, []];
arr1[2] = 'test';

const arr2 = arr1;
arr2[4] = 'new value';

const arr3 = [];
arr1.forEach((elem, idx) => {
    console.log(elem);
    arr3[idx] = elem;
});

arr3[4] = 'CHANGED';
arr1.push('new val');
arr1.unshift('First Item');

const val1 = arr1.pop();
const val2 = arr1.shift();

const arr4 = arr1.map((elem) => {
    console.log(elem);
    return elem;
});

const arr5 = arr1.map((x) => x);
// Clone an Array
console.log(arr5);
```

## 2. JavaScript Objects
Lesson Challenge
1. Create an Object
2. Add values into the Object
3. Use Bracket Notation as well as Dot notation to return back the values of the object
4. Add an array within the object and return the values of the array
```javascript
const person = {
  firstName: "Laurence",
  lastName: "Svekis",
  x1: 1,
  x2: false,
  interests: ["JavaScript", "HTML", "CSS"],
  courses: [
    {
      name: "JavaScript",
      length: 15,
    },
    {
      name: "HTML",
      length: 10,
    },
    {
      name: "CSS",
      length: 20,
    },
  ],
};

console.log(person);
let x = 1;
console.log(person["x" + x]);
x++;
console.log(person["x" + x]);
```

## 3. Loop Through Objects JavaScript Objects Looping and Use of Values
```javascript
const person = {
  firstName: "Laurence",
  lastName: "Svekis",
  x1: 1,
  x2: false,
  interests: ["JavaScript", "HTML", "CSS"],
  courses: [
    {
      name: "JavaScript",
      length: 15,
    },
    {
      name: "HTML",
      length: 10,
    },
    {
      name: "CSS",
      length: 20,
    },
  ],
};

for (const prop in person) {
  console.log(prop);
}

const keys = Object.keys(person);

keys.forEach((key) => {
  console.log(person[key]);
});

const vals = Object.values(person);
vals.forEach((val) => {
  console.log(val);
});

const entries = Object.entries(person);

for (const arr of entries) {
  console.log(arr[0]);
  console.log(arr[1]);
}
```

## 4. JSON and JavaScript Objects methods JSON Objects
```json
// j1.json
{
    "last": "svekis",
    "num": 1,
    "first" : "Laurence"
}
```

```javascript
const url = "j1.json";
let data = "";

myJson();

function myJson() {
  fetch(url)
    .then((rep) => rep.json())
    .then((json) => {
      data = json;
      console.log(data);
    }); 
}
```

## 5. JavaScript JSON Parse and Stringify
1. Get fetch content as text()
2. Use JSON parse to turn String Object into usable JavaScript Object
3. Use LocalStorage to save String version of Object
4. Get from LocalStorage and turn into usable Object

```javascript
const url = 'j1.json';
let data = '';

const localData = localStorage.getItem('temp3');

if (!localData) {
  myJson();
  console.log('saved to local storage');
} else {
  console.log(localData);
  data = JSON.parse(localData);
  console.log(data);
}

function myJson() {
  fetch(url)
    .then((rep) => rep.text())
    .then((json) => {
      data = JSON.parse(json);
      let str = JSON.stringify(data);
      localStorage.setItem('temp3', str);
    })
}
```